you don't feel good right it's just it's
just not good for me i should have really
went for probably the apple and maybe
the sandwich and you know something
maybe a little bit healthier today as we talk uh
i want you to think of it this way paul is really
giving these comparisons right darkness and light
and today he's going to talk about a couple of
different things but it's this idea behind we have
this desire as believers we've been speaking to
believe we have this desire as believers like we
really want to know more about god we desire to
be used for god but it's like in that moment
it's like yes i want to but then we choose
worldly things that really we go after them and
we maybe we bid to watch tv rather than spend
time with god right maybe we choose other things
that just fulfill us outside of god and all of a
sudden those things are just leaking let me just
feel miserable and you're like why did i do that
paul's really kind of even using that more today
it's this idea behind a lot of the things that we
choose is like a substitute to what should
spiritually kill us will never fulfill us
and that we should be filled with the spirit of
god and that just analogy with food really just
stuck out to me because i'm telling you
guys there's something bernie knows this
uh when when i'm looking for something in
the cabinet it seems like nine times out of
ten i'm driving a handful rather than a banana
right so it relates to me because i'm like i'm
always choosing the wrong thing and then later i'm
like why am i nodding out at 2 pm when i should
be doing something all right it's best to make
sure um but so let me catch you up a little bit
so you can kind of know where we're heading today
so a couple weeks ago we talked about this this
idea is paid here for his attention to how we
live right and there's this idea of be ready and
i use the the analogy kind of of like a football
player on defense rather than standing there and
also when the play happens and then they respond
they're ready they're in the ready position so
paul's saying be careful how you live be ready
prepared and these are the things we talked
about the reasons why we should pay careful uh
to have attention to how we live so the first
one was it's a mark of wisdom i think it's this
idea behind um one wisdom is something that i
think all of us would like to have if we don't
feel like we have it so it's a mark of wisdom
um the other thing we learned is that life is
short so as a believer we understand life is short
we're not guaranteed tomorrow and so we should
pay careful attention how we live because we want
it to be lived for the right reasons and for the
good of those around us and for the glory of god
then he talks about the days are evil and this is
more on the relationship side of those but maybe
they're around us that don't know christ and the
days are evil and it's only getting worse and we
need to find them we need to pursue them we need
to share the love of christ with him another one
was that god has given us a mind to understand
his will and so this kind of goes back to this
whole idea of pay careful attention to how
you live and we know that god wants us he's
given us the mind to understand his will but
again sometimes we're choosing other things
rather than choosing the things of his will or
knowledge of his will and the last one is because
god has a plan for you so we should pay careful
attention because god has a plan for you and i
think that's the idea behind like you weren't
made on accident god literally chose to allow
you to be where you are today because he has a
specific purpose for you and i always go back
to that idea it's why don't we start this church
what do we believe in issues we believe god has
literally created you for a purpose and we want
to help you discover that purpose every one
of us writes and we're here and i even love our
wednesday night group is because we're challenging
each other to discover our purpose right and
all comes through our relationship with jesus
and so that's exactly what paul's pointing to
but paul's going to continue to expand on this
idea of be careful how you live and so he's going
to say and he's been using this like unwise don't
be unwise be wise he's saying don't be foolish
right and he's going to expand a little bit more
on that today he's going to kind of say this don't
be reckless in how you live but be filled with the
spirit we're going to talk about what fulfilled
what the spirit is because sometimes a little bit
confusing on exactly what's that mean because
for me i think in my mind i thought there was
only one type of like at the moment of salvation
you have the spirit of god over well there's an
idea of what filled with the spirit is and so
paul's going to kind of just expand on this
through these couple of verses um three evidences
that we are filled with the spirit i think this is
i mean you guys are probably like me it's like
i want to know if i'm successful with something
so i kind of want to know some markers in
my life and that's kind of paul's saying hey
here's some markers in your mind to know if you're
filled with the spirit we're going to address two
of those today that is that you're joyful and
thankful the last one is that you're submissive
and that's going to be a fun one we're
going to jump off into relationships
um next week as it deals with marriage
builds with kids and things like that
and so we'll explain more on that
but today i want us to start reading
in verse 15 so that it all kind of flows together
so ephesians chapter 5 we're starting verse 15
but we're really going to be talking mainly
verses 18 through 20 21 a little bit today
so it says this pay careful attention then to
how you live not as unwise people but as wise
making the most of the time because the days
are evil so don't be foolish but understand
what the lord's will is and don't get drunk with
wine which leads to reckless living but be filled
by the spirit speaking to one another in psalms
and hymns and spiritual songs singing making music
with your hearts to the lord giving thanks always
for everything to to god the father the name
of our lord jesus christ submitting to
one another in fear of christ so when we
look at this the first verse in verse 18 is paul
saying don't be reckless don't be reckless and so
when you think about this verse and the more that
i spent time reading this verse it's kind of stuck
in the middle of all the paul's talking about it
kind of seems out of place but i began to study it
a little bit more and it's really this idea behind
fault to talk about you know don't be unwise be
wise and now he's saying don't be reckless or
uncontrolled but it says be controlled or be
um filled with the spirit and then i think
you guys can probably understand that idea
behind what bug control or what control is i think
about this it's probably like our three-year-old
during worship services uncontrolled right he's
just running around and that's great again that's
what we expected a three-year-old and then we
think of controlled a mature adult right sometimes
but you kind of get that idea so when we
think about this verse right here when he says
and don't get drunk with wine
which leads to recklessness
most of us if we haven't experienced drunkenness
has seen someone drunk so let's talk about the
idea of what does a drunk person act like so you
guys help me out what's the drunk person i play
stupid okay out of control
slow
yes
right so so you know there's several things
that we think about like what is has a drunk
person or what do they say right so they tend
to say things that they normally wouldn't say
they tend to be free with their emotions or
their thoughts or their actions um and so i
mentioned this it seems like everything's always
funnier when someone's drunk right so it's funnier
and here's what the bible says i want you guys to
turn to proverbs chapter 23 if you have your bible
uh turn there if you have your phone
turn there if you don't have anything
it's okay i'll read it but i want
you to turn proverbs chapter 23
because the the bible speaks directly to what
this just so you know this the sermon isn't
just about drunkenness but it is good for us to
understand the idea of uncontrolled and controlled
what drunkenness is and why it's not
wise to be drunk and things like that
so proverbs chapter 23 um starting in verse
29 if you guys have found that say yes
all right so it says this who has woe or who has
sovereign who has conflicts who has complaints
who has wounds for no reason who has red
eyes those who linger over wine those who
go looking for mixed wine don't gaze at
wine because it's red because it gleams
in the cup and goes down smoothly in the end it
bites like a snake and it stings like a viper
your eyes will see strange things been there
and you will save certain things you'll be like
someone sleeping out at sea and lying down on the
top of the ship's mast and they instruct me but i
feel no pain they beat me but i didn't know when
i wake up i'll look for another drink so when we
see this we're seeing this idea of it it's really
not beneficial right it's it's reference to this
it bites like a snake it seems like a viper that's
not two things i want i don't know about y'all i
don't really want that um and so it's just a clear
idea behind like what is our life's like and i
and the one thing that i think that's interesting
with this proverb is it really hits the heart when
he says this don't gaze at wine because it's red
because it gleams in a cup and goes down smoothly
see drinking is appealing drunkenness is actually
killing because the idea is it helps me become
the person so just loading my past life that
helped me became the person that i knew i wasn't
but i thought other people would like right so
it becomes appealing to to be drunk and and even
the proper person who's reading this proverb
is saying the same thing but in comparison
to being controlled by alcohol right is the other
side right being controlled by the spirit of god
um and when we think about this and paul's
speaking to believers he's saying hey go back
to basically chapter 5 verse 1 he says imitate god
imitate god as dearly loved so as imitators of god
we want to be under control not out of control
as someone who would be drunk and so proverbs 20
verse 1 even says a little bit more about this
it says wine is a mocker and beer is a brawler
whoever goes astray because this is not wise and
so it's just a reminder again paul is using wise
and unlikes so as followers of jesus i would say
we would want to be wise and so paul's just saying
don't be unwise don't be uncontrolled but then
the question is then how are we controlled how
can we become controlled well he answered that
question and he says they'll be drunk with one
which leads to reckless living but be filled
with the spirit be filled with the spirit
so that's the opposite of being drunk
with wine careless and out of control
and so this is the question is what does it mean
to be filled with spirit if you've been around
other religions enough you've probably heard
multiple things right for some they say hey you're
baptized with the spirit that you filled with
the spirit and there's multiple different things
and paul actually speaks directly to one of those
and so if you guys want to turn back ephesians
chapter 1 verse 13-14 he actually answers the
spirit's role in this he says in him speaking
of god you were also sealed with the promised holy
spirit when you heard the word of truth the gospel
of your salvation and when you believed and the
holy spirit is a down payment of our inheritance
until the redemption of the possession is the
praise of his glory so this basically saying this
at the moment of salvation the spirit of god comes
to live inside of you so if you're anything like
me whenever you were a new believer and somebody
says the spirit of god comes who lives in you
you're like i'm not letting anybody like that
sounds freaky really just simple it's just god
living inside of you guiding and directing your
life right helping to live a life that honors him
right and so when we we think about this that
happens at the moment of salvation but then he
talks about being filled with the spirit in this
situation so think about this it's spiritual fuel
um when you guys you know go fill your car up is
that the last time you ever fill your car up the
rest of your life unless you don't drive i guess
but it's not right so you're still driving which
means you're gonna go back to to get more fuel so
when we think about he's saying this fill yourself
with this right to be filled with the spirit
it really means to be constantly controlled
basically by the spirit in our minds emotions
and so so the question how do we do that and
i started thinking about this so wednesday
matt made this statement honestly a lot of us
made some amazing statements on wednesday but it
was this idea behind when we talk about prayer
prayer surrender in order to be able to pray and
be able to receive the lord's will we have to
surrender which means we have to empty ourselves
of ourselves into ourselves and basically give a
place for god's will to come into our lives and so
to be filled with the spirit is to daily surrender
as a day we empty ourselves and invite god in
his will to our lives to fill us up with the
things that are what good the things that are
beneficial the things that are controlled right
and when we think about that jesus even modeled
that in the garden that was one of the things i
loved that we got stuck on wednesday jesus modeled
that in the garden when he was praying and again
he prayed for the cup to be pastored and he had
that desire for to be passed from him but yet
he surrendered to god's will and the only way he
could do that is because he surrendered himself
and i think about this we've been using this
statement a lot lately it's like if you had
one day to live one one day to live how would you
live right and we began to talk about what that
looks like and all of us a little bit a little
bit different see jesus knew we had one more
day to live and and let me ask this question to
you how did jesus live that last day of his life
seem to remember
praying okay he spent time with his disciples
poured into people he did everything he could
until his last breath to expand the kingdom of god
to do the lord's will it took surrendering all of
himself and i think about this because a lot of
times we think very similarly if i've only got
24 hours to live i'm going to go live it up see
jesus didn't find himself at the bar drinking he
didn't find himself at disney world which i know
no offense that we just think about disney world
like we're going to do that right but he didn't
find himself there right he found himself wanting
to till the end make sure that everybody he knew
knew the last command and to pray and to surrender
himself and that's not easy just to be honest guys
it's not easy when we think about that because
we're born and selfish we're born to really
want what we want and so as a follower of jesus
this is paul speaking to again followers of jesus
it's a daily process of surrendering ourselves and
then basically picking up our cross daily to
imitate god and so when we think about this in
order to to live and imitate christ we have to
be filled and controlled by the spirit and so
let me ask this because i i'm hoping all of us
can catch some input to this how can we daily be
filled with the spirit what are some things that
we can do to fill ourselves with the spirit of god
read his word okay
what else can we refill the spirit again
this goes along with grain but
yeah basically what i would say everything you
guys are saying is correct is this it's this
idea that how are we filled with the spirit
of god you're dividing him into every place
that you go in every activity and so that's
in every conversation you have that's in every
activity you do that's then again how do you fill
ourselves with the spirit of god it is through his
word and prayer because here's the other thing the
opposite of that it goes back to the whole when
we are hungry we fill ourselves with either junk
or healthy stuff right we choose godly things to
fill ourselves with rather than worldly things to
fill ourselves with so when paul's talking about
feeling yourself rather than the thing that is
not good for you drunkenness which is what he said
yourself with the spirit of god the spirit um who
is living inside of you to control you and guide
you and direct you and so when we think about
this i started looking at colossians if you guys
don't know this i just learned this
even recently so colossians the book
of colossians was wrote around the exact
same times ephesians and there's a lot of
cross-references which means paul's saying a
lot of the same things to the same group of
people but he said a little bit different
in colossians chapter 3 verses 16 and 17
as paul was writing that letter he said this
let the word of christ dwell richly among you
so that's just again him saying the word of god
should dwell inside this right when we think about
the spirit living inside of us it's the word of
god he says in all wisdom and teaching admonishing
one another through psalms and hymns and spiritual
songs singing to god with gratitude in your hearts
and whatever you do and word indeed do everything
in the name of the lord jesus giving thanks to god
the father through him and so this is just a
reminder and i had to read over this and process
this and stick this in my brain is the people of
god can know they're filled with the spirit of god
when they get into the word of god let me
answer that and say one more time and answer
why that's true so the people of god can know
they are filled with the spirit of god when
they get into the word of god here's the reason
why when you get in the word of god it's in here
so sometimes we don't realize we read we read
the word of god we don't look at it as a mirror
but it really it's looking and saying is this
evident in my life whatever i'm reading is
this evident in my life negative or positive
right we're seeing the word talk about sin
is it evident in my life is it something to change
or am i looking at and going oh this is actually a
part of my life so it's affirming or convicted
so it's a mirror but it's also a guide in that
it's a guided map and it's been a guided map
for my life the last 11 years i tell people this
when i give my life to christ i jumped
all in i literally got a reading plan
and it was a piece of paper and every day during
my work at lunch i would read and mark off and
read because i wanted to know what the word got
i needed a map i didn't know here's the thing i
had no clue how to live the christian life but i
had one thing that i could do outside of praying
was read the word of god and so it was a guide
and a map to my life and it really challenged
me because there was a lot of areas that i was
like oh man i don't know what this means and i
don't understand how this applies and i would
ask questions and i would try to apply it right
begin trying to leave those things out and so um
we see that that that is so important right so
there's there's so many ways it can be filled
with the spirit of god but then we talk about
this if you say okay i'm filling myself with the
spirit of god here's the question how do we know
that we are filled with experience we're reading
the word we're praying but i don't want you guys
there sometimes i read and pray out of check marks
rather than out of really gaining something so
if we want to know if it's working we need to
go through the word of god and we need to see
in the mirror whether that's true so paul
actually gave us a couple of those examples
in these these verses so verse 19 says these fun
things and you guys will think the same thing is
just speaking to one another in the psalms and
tens i'm i'm not sure i've done that with y'all
um but he says he put together psalms and hymns
and spiritual songs and singing and making music
with the heart with your heart to the lord
in essence basically this is what paul's
saying is that you're joyful you're excited
anybody ever wake up with a song in the heart
and you just start seeing it throughout the day
right it becomes just this like pretty way costly
it seems like i'll come in from working out i'm
singing something she's singing something it's
all about this song right that that guy's put
on your heart you're you're joyful and a lot of
times when i'm singing those songs it's because
i should be reminded to be joyful i need to be
reminded to be joyful so joy when we think
about this so in galatians i think it's fine
it talks about the fruits of the spirit which is
the result of the spirit of god living inside us
one of those is joy so joy comes from being
filled with the spirit and it's not based upon our
circumstances this is one of the things that paul
modeled paul modeled that joy is not based upon
circumstances and i love this example joy is not a
thermostat do you even know what a thermostat does
it measures the temperature in the room so if
circumstances are bad my joy is are good my joy is
high right that that's not how joy is from uh the
fruit of the spirit it's a it's it's a thermostat
it's not thermometer it's a thermostat i may
have said that completely backwards but it's
a thermostat so thermostat actually sets the
control right so no matter how cold it gets
outside i can set it at 70. it can be warm right
so we allow joy the spirit of god inside of us
to set the standard to set how we're going to view
circumstances and paul even talked about this in
philippians 4 where he says i have learned to be
content and whatever circumstances i am in myself
so paul didn't just say hey be joyful
you need to sing songs and hymns together
but you need he says i modeled the three
look at me i'm writing this letter in prison
to you and i'm saying to have joy and he's
proven uh how important it is to have joy
and i think about brittany you may remember this
we had a guy by the name of frank um we had some
different theological issues but he always
would come to my wednesday night class and
he would challenge me a little bit but here's one
thing with frank i don't remember him being sad
most of the time i would say hey frank
how you doing hey brother i'm doing great
god is good like every time i saw him i'm like
like i don't like this guy because i like to kind
of be down a lot like i just like it depending on
if it's in a rainy day i'm gonna be down he's just
everything's good right and so he kind of reminded
me of that like he was somebody who had joy
and it seemed like in every circumstance and
every time i was talking negative he would
always remind me now brother and so brother
god's blessed you he kind of helped me remind
me of these things it's hard to to do that it is
hard to do that um but i look at these two verses
right he's talking about being joyful uh we're
seeing the psalms and his to one another right
when i think about the difference between verse
18 and verse 19 we're really talking about the
difference between a spirit-filled person and
a person that is drunken so let's talk about
what each one of them is under control so from
a from a person who's drunk is under control
by alcohol right not by god but alcohol they're
not ashamed to express themselves most of time
and i'm really not in an honorable way right and i
think about this it's joy brought on by substance
sometimes we're having fun when we're drunk
but it's really a joy brought on by substance
and it ends up being an impressive later on
when we look about the spirit-filled persons
they're under control by god is not ashamed
to express themselves in a way that honors god
with joy when we think about someone
who's drunk they're out of control
because it affects the brain ends up saying and
doing stupid things when we look at somebody who
is spirit-filled they're self-controlled
just one of the fruits of the spirit
which is really god in control right saying
and doing things that honor god when we look
at someone who's drunk it's really someone who
calls attention to themselves when we look at
someone who is spirit-filled is calling attention
to christ and i want us to look at a spirit-filled
person and what a spirit-filled person has
done and when we look through the book of acts
the result of someone who says that they're filled
with the spirit and what happens next and so if
you guys have your bibles with you i want you
to turn a couple different places in acts we're
gonna start with acts 431 i know i got you guys
using your bible labs or your bibles a lot more
today but trust me it's value because i'm hoping
that you understand this god's word is truth
and it helps affirm a lot of things in our lives
and reminds us what is important so acts 4 31
says this it says that when they had prayed
the place where they had assembled was
shaken and they were filled with the holy
spirit and begins to speak the word of god
boldly let's look at another one just flip over to
chapter seven of acts and look at verses 55 and 56
it says this it says and stephen full of the holy
spirit gaze into heaven and he saw the glory of
god and jesus stand at the right hand of god and
he said look i see the heavens open and the son of
man standing at the right hand of god these are
the last words that were said by stephen before
he was sewn and as we know he was filled by the
spirit before him because he was speaking boldly
for christ then let's look at acts chapter
13 it's the last one acts chapter 13
verses 9 and 10 it says but saul also called paul
filled with the holy spirit stared straight at
and said you are full of all kinds of disease and
trickery your son you are the son of the devil and
the enemy of all that is right won't you ever
stop perverting the straight and narrow paths
of the lord so we see these three instances and
there's more that they were filled with the spirit
and they spoke boldly so someone who's
filled with the spirit doesn't fall
back they stand up they speak up and i think
about this so when we're talking about okay
i know i'm supposed to be controlled i know that
i'm supposed to be filled with the spirit we know
being filled with the spirit comes from
a relationship with jesus let's just make
that simple a relationship with jesus and if it
comes to a relationship with jesus how do i know
that my relationship is actually a relationship or
just a contract right something i'm just obligated
to do or something that i desire to do when we
start looking am i speaking up boldly for christ
am i joyful in my conversations in my
relationships with others am i speaking
from the stance of of confidence in what christ
is doing despite my circumstances sometimes i'm
just telling you i actually kind of circled
this i'm probably failing on the joint side
there there's a lot of times i'm missing that mark
i'm going back and i'm asking myself this question
am i filling myself with the spirit of god am
i filling myself really with self-doubt worldly
things that doesn't benefit me and doesn't help
me overcome that but paul goes on and he says
okay there's one more and there's more but he's
just in these couple of verses he goes on so we're
back here in ephesians chapter five and he talks
about verse 20 where he says we should give thanks
always for in everything or for everything to god
the father in the name of the lord jesus christ
so an evidence that spiritual
persons also be thankful
and a thankful person is usually
humble and acknowledges god
the provider of everything they've received
and so want to take just a couple of minutes
if a spiritual person is thankful what are you
thankful for what are you thankful for family
thankful for your husband
that was awkward sorry
what are you guys thankful for
ice cream
so okay now let's take this so
sometimes when you're asked this question what
do you think before you like you start processing
you start like listing these things off but how
often during the day do you stop and thank god
is it once a day is it just during your breakfast
lunch and dinner prayers that you pray thank god
or is it consistently and are you thinking and
based upon only the good are you thinking him
because he's still good even though what you're
seeing are experiencing isn't necessarily guilty
see this is where we talk about a spiritual person
doesn't look around at their circumstances right
many of us say that we're thankful but paul
is specific and this is where i had to kind
of go back and say well i'm thankful
but then paul said giving thanks always
for everything is there any thing that could
happen in your life where you should be thinking
sorry paul's saying no everything
and everything and always
and you haven't you weren't raised where i was
raised you weren't here and the truth was i wasn't
i wasn't but here's what paul is
saying everything you can be thankful
and and it really just reminds me
this is this this idea is is that
if you might mean you look at a
lot of life with the glass actually
right you're going to look at the negative we are
drawn to the negative in everything but there are
so many positives and so in every situation
and in all things as endorsement as a believer
in christ one who has given us salvation when he's
given us life once given us the ability to be used
for its glory and love and patience and mercy all
these things right in any situation you could stop
get out of pen a piece of paper and you can write
down all the negative things of the situation but
then you could write down all the good things of
god that you can be thankful for i guarantee you
it will outnumber everything that is made that's
why paul says in all things and in everything you
can give things it's a mark it's a mark of a
spiritual person and so these are things where
my encouragement always with these things is you
can either look at this until defeated and be like
man i'm such a poor christian i guess i'm just not
even fit to be a christian that's not what paul is
saying here's a false name it's encouraging
if this isn't a mark of your life it can be
and and i'll just tell you if we can have joy in
all social services and we can be thankful for
situations it will help us he's saying this
is beneficial for me it's not beneficial to
live a reckless life it's beneficial to live a
controlled and consistent thankful and enjoyable
see i'll i'll give you a great example where i
felt um and it's not the only time that i'll fell
right so this year i called 2021 see 2020 was
the year at the pandemic 2020 in our house is
the year of the dentist the year of the days
24 minutes already i can't miss anything
2021's the year of the days we've had three
room announcements multiple business visits paid
just got braces and so this is the moment where
i want to complain right because you all know how
much all that is if you've been to the dentist
you know which one it is i want to complain
this is stupid you know right no i'm just
telling i want to complain that your wife
you know god provided a stimulus right and so we
can also thank our president and we can thank him
as well right we can also thank god because he
provided that that student's money let's pay for
every one of our next things and i can complain
because man that money was sitting there in the
bank we were going to use it on other things but
god's saying no like i provided for like we want
to complain you guys like what i'm providing
for you why are you complaining and it's like
i guess you're right like you know i didn't even
think about that but i'd like to complain right
so this is just a reminder that i felt and in all
circumstances i can give things and i it's easier
and just this rhythm what we have to create is
when things don't go the way you want start off
with thanksgiving start off with thanking god
for everything you can possibly think of and
if you run out of things open the word of god and
start reading scripture and start thinking for it
and when you're done you'll probably forget
you're complaining and i need to tell myself
that and i hope that maybe this helps you
because maybe you struggle with the same thing
so he's saying here again um so this was
interesting we talked about this last week verse
17 uh two weeks ago it says so don't be
foolish but understand the lord's will
and we want to know what the lord's will is first
thessalonians 5 18 says in everything give thanks
for this is the will of god and so it's just
affirming the will of god is for us to be
thankful so we can't let our circumstances
dictate how thankful we are or how joyful we are
we need to understand that
we can always be thankful
and so i want to kind of finish up this way
and today i feel like i've just been speaking
a lot i'm not really preaching i don't know
maybe i'm just not moved to preach like just
crazy emotional today um but i want to share with
you just a couple things as we kind of finish up
today and this idea of spirit-filled relationships
yes maybe your parents weren't this way but i
remember my parents but was there some things
that your parents didn't let you do as a kid
like i mean like i want to go hang on with
my friends and they're like no and i'm like
wow like it's not good for you and you're like
complaining and you're frustrated with it right
and then you get older and you look back and
especially if you have kids now you're going
thinking through that when i was looking at this
message but if you're anything like me as a kid my
parents said did not do a lot of things and i did
it anyways and then i began to think through how
that affected my life how that affected my life in
such a negative way the paths that i went down the
things that i saw and the things that i did were
not valuable for me and i'm like you know i would
have been good to listen to my parents it would
have been good to not do that um so let me kind
of share my story and then just a little bit of
story with with the whole idea behind how it falls
at 14 is when i started drinking and my brother
was six years old um and so he thought it was cool
and if i went with him he'd let me dream right
so that's where i started um and i did that up
through a little bit of my teenage years and into
my early 20s and that was where i spent my life on
the weekends is we were looking for a place to go
to if we're going to go to somebody's house it's
friday night saturday night it's i'm drinking
right that was the whole point because that's
the only thing that was fun and people liked
me it was exciting why not go to those things
until i found jesus um and i remember this
i wrestled for a year with my salvation
and and i rested for a year because there's
a lot of things i didn't want to give up and
one of those was alcohol and here's the thing
nobody on sunday morning to give up alcohol
and but it was the lord the lord told
me that you can't follow me if that
is what you still think you need to bring
you joy if that's what you think you need
to be liked and to have fun be exciting and
i remember after gave my life to christ and i
think we went back to one more party we walked
away we can't do this this is not who we are
and it was nothing against them it's just god
had brought in our lives that was just not
beneficial for us it was not valuable because it
was reckless living and so for me i feel like that
we chose and i choose to stand for my whole
not because i have to and this is not about
is drinking the same cause drinking is not a
drunken incidence but for me i just realized i
didn't need it the spirit of god fulfills me the
spirit of god fulfills me and just so you know
i struggle with other things right social media
sometimes i just go to social media whenever i'm
feeling struggling right so it's like i don't have
other issues but just speaking to this one issue
and i think it's one i felt like i wanted our
whole church to understand my stance i don't train
and it's not because i think it's
a sin i think drunk was a sin
but for me i just don't find value in him and
and when i look at what paul's saying paul's
saying there isn't value in drunkenness and then
i think about this at what point do we understand
what drunkenness is and i think that was my
struggle as a believer is at what point is it a
buzz or drunkenness and if you go to some science
there's a buzz driving in strong driving right so
what is the line um and i think about this quote i
shared with you guys a couple of months ago i was
praying a month again it was why resist temptation
in the future when you eliminated today why resist
impatient in the future today and just so you
hear my arguments this is not speaking directly
to alcohol as much as it's speaking to the things
in which are reckless they're not valuable for us
they cause us to be out of control why do
we choose them why do we allow them to even
be around for one day and entrapping us in
sin and the things that god called us to
so when we look at this and as paul kind of
summarizes this paul is saying don't live a
reckless life don't live a reckless life live
one that is controlled by the spirit of god
and we should be controlled
in such a way that we have joy
and we have thankfulness and we have boldness no
matter what the circumstance we should know about
things in that would cause us to be distracted
from those things and i'll be the first one to
say i'm guilty of allowing that to happen and
this is convicting to me that i need to even find
some areas of my life which i'm allowing to
control me and say it's not worth it it's reckless
so you're heavenly father let me kind of
go back to this whole thing with my parents
right my parents didn't let me go hang with
friends whenever i thought i should have
hung out with friends and all these
things so we have a heavenly father
that is looking out for you and he's given us
his word and he's saying this based on all that
i've done all that i've done for you that's what
we've really based all of ephesians four and five
off of that's all that god's done for us based on
that we should live in a way that imitates christ
we should we should led by the spirit inside
us rather than living with the influences of
the world that destroys us and that causes
us to be reckless and i just i look at this
and i'm saying it's god our father being
my parents back when i didn't want to
listen to my parents and it's time for me to
mature up and say this is my heavenly father
that's speaking to me through his word
and he's telling me quit living reckless
quick it's not valuable for you it's not good for
you i want you to go and live as a child of christ
don't let anything distract you so if you
want to make your life count and this is
just a challenge to myself as i live you want
to make your life count if you want to influence
others for christ you want to change the world it
starts with being controlled by the spirit of god
the relationship with jesus i don't know where
your relationship with jesus is right now i don't
know if you're struggling i don't know what you're
um dealing with at all but what's your response
today that's the question what's your to that at
the end of every message and every time you study
that word you should ask this question what is god
asking me to do what is he speaking to me about
how does this apply to me what does this mean and
so that's what we'll do so during the invitation
i just want you to ask god this question god
how does this message speak to me what in this
text do i need to take home with me is it to have
joy in all circumstances because you want to be a
spiritual person be thankful in all circumstances
and if those are the two things you wanted to be
bold in your faith and those are the three things
you want it starts with a relationship with jesus
and and so if you don't have a blessing of jesus
i want to challenge you with this it starts today
today's the day of salvation if we if we think
about what paul's all been saying here your life
is short there's no guarantees for tomorrow so i
just challenge you with this i'm gonna be up here
come talk to me if it's after service come talk
to me and say i want to know jesus i want to give
my life to jesus because today is the day
of salvation today is the day to make that
right with god and begin to grow your
relationship with him to be spirit filled
but then what about the person who knows jesus how
does this text abide maybe it's just very similar
to me right his word we're living this life
where we know there's just some things we need
we need to say it's not good for us god's
word already says that we need to come to
the conclusion that our heavenly father is right
it's just not god and we need to turn it over
to him and you ask god to forgive us and you know
what i love about our heavenly father he says okay
you know he doesn't hold it over your head i like
to hold things under people's heads because that's
just sometimes my nature and it's bad but god does
he says you are forgiven so take this time to your
invitation that go before the lord says seek me
know my heart help me turn from my wicked ways
and surrender my life fully to
you so that you can fill it up
spirit-filled today and every day for his glory
for our good and so that others may know him
because that's what we're here for right all
right let's pray lord jesus we love you lord
i pray lord today that your words vote for
because um i struggle to speak lord i pray
today that your will is known lord that your will
is to be thankful in all circumstances god um
seek my heart lord during this time
of meditation words seek my heart
lord forgive me for the things in which lord are
careless and i'm beneficial my life forward that
i continue to cling on to lord thinking that that
is more valuable than in spirit-filled life lord
help me choose you every day and surrender
myself every day lord i pray that you choose
to help each person this room think through the
lord in the process through their life's lord to
see what is valuable in my life to make that a
priority to be controlled by the spirit of god
lord i pray there's someone in this room that
doesn't know your word they don't meet today
before they do but if they can talk to being
here they talk to somebody else in the room
and they say hey i want to know jesus lord
because that's the greatest relationship